# Turbulent Flow in a curved pipe (3D)

Goals of the tutorial:

- Using a turbulence model in TrioCFD: RANS or LES
- Using a periodic box to obtain a developed turbulent flow for inlet boundary conditions
- Using TrioCFD's parallel capabilities

{numref}`fig:pipe1` shows the geometry of the test case you will run in this tutorial.
{numref}`fig:pipe2` shows the inlet of the pipe, where the special periodic box computation will be used.

```{figure} FIGURES/pipe1.jpg
:class: custom-image-class
:name: fig:pipe1
:alt: pipe1

Geometry of the curved pipe
```

```{figure} FIGURES/pipe2.jpg
:class: custom-image-class
:name: fig:pipe2
:alt: pipe2

Zoom on the pipe inlet, with the periodic box in blue
```

## Preparation of the tutorial

For this tutorial, start from an empty directory, e.g. `TrioCFD_tutorial_curved_pipe` and source the TrioCFD environment.

This tutorial will start from the validation form **PeriodicBox**. Use the following commands to copy this validation form:

```bash
mkdir -p PeriodicBox && cd PeriodicBox
cp ${TrioCFD_project_directory}/share/Validation/Rapports_automatiques/Turbulence/RANS/PeriodicBox/src/* .
```


You should now have serveral files in your `PeriodicBox` directory, including:

- `BuildMeshes.data`: for generating the curved pipe and box meshes

- `PeriodicBoxRANS.data`: for running the RANS simulation in the periodic box
- `DomainFlowRANS.data`: for running the RANS simulation in the pipe with inlet steady boundary conditions

- `PeriodicBoxLES.data`: for running the LES simulation in the periodic box
- `DomainFlowLES.data`: for running the LES simulation in the pipe with inlet unsteady  boundary conditions

## Generating the meshes

Now you will generate the meshes. The pipe mesh is stored in an archive, simply decompress it using:
```
gunzip Tube_coude_463259.msh.gz
```

For the periodic box, the mesh will be generated by the tools provided by Trust. For this, run the `BuildMeshes.data` file with TrioCFD/TRUST:
```
triocfd BuildMeshes.data
```

This dataset will first partition the pipe mesh for 6 cpu parallel simulation, and then generate the periodic box mesh and partition it, making it usable with 2 to 6 cores.

You can look at the `BuildMeshes.data` and try to understand what each line do. The syntax is relatively straightforward.

## Running the PeriodicBox simulations

Before running, open the files `PeriodicBoxRANS.data` and `PeriodicBoxLES.data` and change the parameter `nb_pas_dt_max` to 100, to shorten the simulations. Running the full calculations may take up to a few hours.

Then, run the simulations in parallel with two processes:
```
triocfd PeriodicBoxRANS 2
triocfd PeriodicBoxLES 2
```


## Running the pipe simulations

Before running the simulations on the full pipe, take a look at the data sets for each simulation: `DomainFlowRANS.data` (resp. `DomainFlowLES.data`). 
To better visualize the differences between the two, you can open/edit them via meld:
```
meld DomainFlowRANS.data DomainFlowLES.data &
```

First, change `nb_pas_dt_max` to 10 in both files, to shorten the calculations.

You can see that the data files contains two problems, one for the box (`pb_box`) and one for the pipe (`pb_dom`). 
They will be coupled together, so that the pipe problem takes the output from the periodic box as its inlet boudary condition.

Notice that:

- we use the last iteration of the previous calculation `PeriodicBoxXXX` as an initial condition for the box problem (`pb_box`).
    - This is done for the velocity field of the `Navier_Stokes_Turbulent` equation and for the temperature of the `Convection_Diffusion_Temperature_Turbulent` equation. 
    - This initialization is done with the keyword `Champ_fonc_reprise` in `initial_conditions`, and using the argument `last_time` (at the end of the line). `last_time` can also be replaced by a specific time you want to use.

- the special coupled boundary condition is done in `boundary_conditions` of the pipe problem (`pb_dom`) with the line:
  `inlet frontiere_ouverte_temperature_imposee Champ_front_recyclage { pb_champ_evaluateur pb_box temperature 1 }`

- most of the differences between the 2 datasets are in the definition of the turbulence models: k-espilon for the RANS simulation and WALE for the LES simulation, each having their own parameters.


Now, you can run the Pipe simulations:
```
triocfd DomainFlowRANS 6
triocfd DomainFlowLES 6
```

You can take a look at the result with visit. But using visit is out of the scope of this tutorial.