(quickstart-target)=
# Quick Start

Welcome to the TrioCFD user guide !

TrioCFD is provided as source code only meaning that you will need to compile it yourself in order to use it. 
Build instructions can be found at the [Github repository](https://github.com/cea-trust-platform/TrioCFD-code).

Once built, you must source the shell environment generated by the build procedure (`env_TrioCFD.sh`).
This will allow you to start a TrioCFD simulation from the command line by using the command `triocfd`.

The triocfd executable must be provided a data file describing the physical problem you want to simulate and the numerical tools you want to use. This file uses an in-house format which allows to interface with the C++ implementation by specifying directives to execute and objects to instanciate.

See in Section [How to write a data file](./howto/index) for some guidelines on writing this file. The [](keywords-target) lists all valid keywords that can be used in a .data file, and describes the arguments they must be given.


## TRUST and TrioCFD Environment Setup

The open-source TrioCFD software is a Baltik of TRUST. It is therefore based on TRUST. One of the main application of [TrioCFD](https://triocfd.cea.fr/) is turbulent flow modelling. You will need it for this tutorial. Therefore, we will show you how to link your **TRUST** environment to the TrioCFD one.

### Environment Initialization

First, you'll need to install TrioCFD from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/cea-trust-platform/TrioCFD-code):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/cea-trust-platform/TrioCFD-code.git $MY_TRIOCFD_REPO
cd $MY_TRIOCFD_REPO
source PathToTRUST/env_TRUST.sh
baltik_build_configure -execute
make optim
make debug 
```
Note that you will need to have build **TRUST** in optim and debug.

Verification of the environment setup can be done by checking the environment variables:
```bash
echo $exec
echo $project_directory
```